# PWDK_MachineLearning_CaliforniaHouse
Based on PPIC (Public Policy Institute of California), California is the state with the most population in the US, with a population of more than 39 million (based on Census Bureau estimates in July 2022). Some of the reasons California has a very high population are the large number of immigrants who move there, being the largest technology center with Silicon Valley, and being the world's film center (Hollywood).

Based on these problems, property companies certainly need to have a 'tool' that can predict and help their clients (in this case, house sellers) determine the right house selling price for each property they are going to sell. Differences in the various features contained in a property, such as the number of rooms, location, and type of property, can increase the accuracy of the prediction of the selling price, which can bring profit for the home seller and, of course, be affordable for the buyer.

In this machine learning, I use RMSE, MAE, and MAPE, where RMSE is the average square root of the error, MAE is the average absolute value of the error, and MAPE is the average percentage of error generated by the regression model. The smaller the RMSE, MAE, and MAPE values, the more accurate the model is in predicting selling prices according to the limitations of the features used. The reason RMSE, MAE, and MAPE are used as evaluation metrics is because the data set used includes the regression category.

After testing, it turned out that the best model is using XGBoost because it has a MAPE value of 18.2%, so it can be categorized as 'good forecasting' (Lewis, 1982). We can conclude that if later our model is used to estimate the price of homes for sale in California in the range of values as trained on the model (14999–500001 USD), then the average price estimate will miss by approximately 18.2% of what the price should be.
